- One of the most repetitive security issues
we find in software development today
is input validation bugs.
With input validation issues
exist in many different contexts.
We are going to focus on the client server
input validation issues and how to possibly address them.
Let's get started by talking
about the attack vectors at play.
Injection attacks are one of the most common
and most publicized exploits,
not just in the input validation arena but globally.
Often when we think about injection attacks
we are talking about SQL injection.
But there are several other types.
In fact, anything that is interpreted
can be subject to an injection attack.
The concept is rather simple.
A structured statement is created,
then anticipates user input to complete that statement
before it is run through an interpreter.
For example, in SQL we could write a statement
that is something like SELECT star from users
WHERE username equals some value.
Now at run time we take user input
and simply concatenate the statement before execution.
If an attacker can find this scenario,
they can provide input that not only
completes this statement,
but also executes a new statement
by simply adding a semicolon.
This provides the attacker more information
about the system than the developer ever intended.
Scripting attacks are another very common attack
based on lack of proper input validation.
The most common, and continually on the OWASP Top Ten,
is cross-site scripting, or XSS attacks.
The concept again is rather simple.
The attacker injects a script through a user input field
or some other post or put method.
That script is then served to a victim
through his or her browser.
The script is then rendered in the client browser
of the victim and the exploit is executed.
Often these scripts send data of some kind
back to the attacker's server.
So what I just described
is called a persistent cross-site scripting attack.
However, there are a couple other types.
Reflected cross-site scripting
is often used in phishing attacks,
where the malicious script actually
originates in the request.
There are also exploits in the dom that can be attacked.
All of these exploits are based on lack of input validation.
While these attacks can be nasty,
the fixes for them are relatively straightforward.
One approach is to require validation of all user input.
One such validation technique is called blacklisting.
Blacklists look for key patterns like script tags
and filter the input out.
Blacklisting is often one of the first attempts,
but they tend to be easy to circumvent
and should not be used alone.
Another validation technique is whitelisting.
And it's much more effective than blacklisting.
Whitelisting looks at the pattern that the data should have,
such as length or symbols, and requires that the data
matches that pattern before it's ever accepted.
For instance, an email address must contain the at symbol
and end with a dot and a valid top-level domain.
In either case, the validation should always
be applied server side and be the first thing executed.
Now you can apply validations client side
to save the server call,
but it still must be executed server side.
The reason is that you could always post back to the server
without the actual webpage.
So never rely only on client side input validation.